Node.js Server Setup and Installation Guide
This README provides instructions for setting up and running the Node.js server for the web application. The server uses Express.js and Nodemailer to handle API requests and send emails.
Prerequisites
Before running the server, ensure the following are installed on your system:

Node.js: Version 14.x or higher. Download and install from nodejs.org. Verify with node -v and npm -v.
npm: Node Package Manager, included with Node.js installation.
Git: Optional, for cloning the repository. Download from git-scm.com.

Installation Steps

Clone the Repository (if applicable):
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-directory>


Initialize a Node.js Project (if not already done):If a package.json file does not exist, create one by running:
npm init -y

This generates a default package.json file.

Install Dependencies:Run the following command to install the required Node.js packages:
npm install express cors body-parser nodemailer dotenv

This installs the following dependencies, which will be listed in package.json:

express: Web framework for Node.js.
cors: Middleware for enabling Cross-Origin Resource Sharing.
body-parser: Middleware for parsing JSON request bodies.
nodemailer: Module for sending emails.
dotenv: Module for loading environment variables from a .env file.


Set Up Environment Variables:Create a .env file in the root directory of the project and add the following:
EMAIL_USER=your-email@gmail.com
EMAIL_PASS=your-app-specific-password


Replace your-email@gmail.com with your Gmail address.
Replace your-app-specific-password with an App Password generated from your Google Account settings (required for Gmail's Nodemailer integration).


Verify Installation:Ensure all dependencies are installed by checking the node_modules folder and package.json in your project directory. The dependencies section in package.json should include:
"dependencies": {
  "body-parser": "^1.20.3",
  "cors": "^2.8.5",
  "dotenv": "^16.4.5",
  "express": "^4.21.1",
  "nodemailer": "^6.9.15"
}



Running the Server

Install PM2 (if not already installed):PM2 is a process manager for Node.js applications, recommended for running the server in a production-like environment. Install it globally with:
npm install -g pm2


Start the Server:Run the following command to start the server using PM2:
pm2 start server.js

Alternatively, you can start the server directly with Node.js:
node server.js

The server will start on http://localhost:3000 (or the port specified in the code, e.g., PORT=3000).

Test the Server:

Open a browser or use a tool like Postman to visit http://localhost:3000/. You should see the message: Server is running.
Test email endpoints (e.g., /send-matched-email, /send-acceptance-email, /send-rejection-email, /send-verification-code) by sending POST requests with the required JSON payload.



Troubleshooting

Port Conflict: If port 3000 is in use, update the PORT variable in server.js to an available port or ensure no other application is using port 3000.
Email Sending Issues: Verify the .env file contains valid Gmail credentials and an App Password. Check the console for error messages from Nodemailer.
Module Not Found: Run npm install again to ensure all dependencies are installed. Ensure you're in the correct project directory.
Firewall/Port: Ensure port 3000 is not blocked by your firewall.
PM2 Issues: If PM2 fails to start, verify it’s installed (pm2 --version) and check logs with pm2 logs.

Additional Notes

The server is configured to handle CORS requests, allowing cross-origin API calls.
Ensure a stable internet connection for Nodemailer to send emails via Gmail's SMTP server.
For production, PM2 is recommended as it provides process management, automatic restarts, and logging. Use pm2 logs to monitor the server and pm2 stop server.js to stop it.
Secure the server with HTTPS in production environments.
Code Consolidation: The server code includes multiple Express setups, which may cause conflicts (e.g., multiple servers on port 3000). Consider consolidating all endpoints into a single server.js file with one app.listen(PORT).

